---
title: "biocompute"
date: 2021-03-20
location: "Taipei, Taiwan"
tags: []
summary: ""
images:
  -
---

The convergence of laboratory automation, high-throughput assays, and machine
learning is moving the medium of biological discovery to silicon.

Bench top experimentation will be the machine code of the biological programmer,
simple instructions that are executed by robotics just as bytes are fed through
a compiler.

However, if the goal of creating arbitrary synthetic life is to be realized, we
need to upgrade our tooling. We will need robust software that operates at the
abstraction level of the organism. We will need a programming language that
speaks fluently with DNA, RNA, and amino acids as native primitives.

We have attempted to adapt the tooling of classical computing towards the
biological domain without teaching the computer about biology. We wonder why we
havenâ€™t cured cancer or reproduced Jurassic Park, meanwhile our DNA sits in
computer memory as static bytecode. These bits are completely unaware of their
own evolutionary lineage and involvement in the rich networks of biochemistry
that characterize living systems. Without such context, this reduction is
wasteful.

Databases of sequences should be exploding with exploratory computation - mining
networks of open access biological data for patterns - and they should do so
autonomously and continuously. No spare CPU clock cycle should be allowed to go
idle. The next cancer therapy might rely on a key connection between some
esoteric epigenetic signature from open access in-vivo data and the solubility
of an implicated protein characterized in some orthogonal publication. These
connections need to be made.

The Internet has become a kitchen sink for the residual yet valuable data
exhaust of the academic machine. We need to be continuously mining this space
for insight and knowledge that can be encoded into therapeutics and new
biological building blocks.

The world was first eaten by the transistor, then by the Internet, then by
software. We are now on the cusp of a new marriage of such predecessors. We will
use software to connect and orchestrate transistors through the Internet to
engineer biology.

The goal of the latch project is to build and disseminate the data
infrastructure of the biocomputing revolution.
